Let's take a moment to
understand how CrateDB solves
the challenges associated with
today's diverse data sources and
the demands of modern systems or
application development.
When developing a system or
application that needs to store
and access data in the database,
you'll often start by using a
relational database system.
Soon you realise you also need a
search solution and add a search
engine to the architecture.
Now you have to manage data
replication processes to keep
that engines data in sync with
the relational database.
Maybe you have a need to store
complex objects or arbitrary
JSON and streaming data from
sensors.
Adding a document store and time
series database helps you to
meet these needs.
As your system grows, geospatial
data becomes important and you
also need normalised
abstractions for machine
learning.
To work with embeddings, a
vector store is added.
In the end you have a very
complex architecture with a lot
of data replication, different
technologies and multiple
different languages in use for
each of these technologies.
This adds complexity to
deployment, monitoring and
operations.
It also creates additional
development overhead due to the
different query languages and
data abstractions used by each
data store in the system.
There are issues and
implications with adopting this
sort of data architecture.
Let's begin with the issues.
Having a data store per use case
requires data integration and
synchronisation.
It's difficult to manage scaling
up and out of multiple data
stores, especially with time
series databases.
You also end up with a complex
application back end because
you're developing with different
languages and in different data
silos.
This leads to a growing
complexity and technical debt
over time.
The implications here for your
people:
You'll have multiple skill sets
required.
You'll need more people to
maintain this complexity.
There's an implication for time
to delivery as well.
It's a slow time to value
because changes take a long time
and there are many overhead
activities associated with all
of these different data stores.
Overall, this leads to a high
total cost of ownership and a
high cost of change.
So what does a solution to these
problems look like?
Ideally, we want a single source
of truth that keeps data in near
real time.
We want to support multiple
different data types in a single
technology and we want that to
be performant and to scale.
Let's look at how CrateDB
solves these challenges.
CrateDB offers a multi model
approach that can cover tables,
time series, geospatial
documents, or JSON, binary
objects and vectors.
All of these data types are
accessible via standard SQL
by data consumers.
A dynamic schema makes the
database more resilient and
easier to change.
Functions allow for more complex
tasks.
This is backed by a distributed
query engine that allows for
massive high volume concurrent
reads and writes.
Columnar storage and advanced
indexing helps to support fast
complex queries and eases
development as not all indexes
need to be defined manually.
The distributed nature allows
for highly available and
horizontally scalable
architectures.
CrateDB can be deployed on the
edge in your data centres as
well as in cloud environments.
It's also available as a managed
service.
A synchronisation method helps
to keep the edge and other
clusters in sync.
For example, you could store and
process individual data on the
edge and synchronise relevant
information into the cloud to
perform holistic analysis.